First draft of core version policy (#1061)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/core-versions.md

---

> title: "Understanding dbt Core Versions"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Understanding dbt Core versions"
```

id: "core-versions"

> ---

Reviewer: Open to changes here. Just a 1st shot.

```suggestion
description: "Learn about the semantic versioning dbt Core uses and when we end support for versions."
---
```

See also:

> - [Installing dbt Core](dbt-cli/install/overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To learn about the different ways you can install dbt Core, see "[How to install dbt Core](dbt-cli/install/overview)."
```

> - [require-dbt-version](require-dbt-version) + [dbt_version](dbt_version)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To restrict your project to only work with a range of dbt Core versions or find the currently running dbt Core version, see "[require-dbt-version](require-dbt-version)" and "[dbt_version](dbt_version)."
```

> - In dbt Cloud: [choosing](cloud-choosing-a-dbt-version) and [upgrading](cloud-upgrading-dbt-versions) dbt Core versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To learn how you can use dbt Core versions in dbt Cloud, see "[Choosing a dbt Core version](cloud-choosing-a-dbt-version)" and "[Upgrading dbt Core versions in Cloud](cloud-upgrading-dbt-versions)."
```

> ### Semantic versioning

Reviewer: Let's move these up to H2 and if we think H2 is too big, maybe I should open an issue to deal with it in the CSS.
```suggestion
## Semantic versioning
```

> dbt Core is released in versions, according to [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/). There are three types of version releases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Core is released in versions, according to [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), which means three types of version releases:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- **Major versions** To date, dbt Core has had one major version release (v1.0.0). When released, v2.0.0 will introduce new features and break backwards compatibility for functionality that has been deprecated.
```

- **Minor versions**, also called "feature releases," include a mix of net-new features and changes to existing capabilities that are backwards-compatible with previous minor versions. They will not break code in your project that relies on documented functionality.
- **Patch versions**, also called "maintenance releases," include fixes _only_. These fixes could be improvements to new features, needed to restore previous behavior (from unintended regressions), or critical for security/installation. We are judicious about which fixes are included in patch releases, to minimize the surface area of changes.

> To date, dbt Core has had one **major version** release: v1.0.0. In the future, when v2.0.0 is released, it will introduce new features and break backwards compatibility for functionality that has been deprecated.

Reviewer: Per my comment above, can we move this as the 1st bullet point in the list?
```suggestion
```

> ### Expectations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Expectations
```

> **Upgrading to patches:** We expect users to upgrade to patches as soon as they're available. When we refer to a "minor version" of dbt Core, such as v1.0 or v1.0.x, we are always referring to _the latest patch release of that version_. We highly encourage you to structure your development and production environments such that you can always install the latest patch.

Reviewer: I think this section might be more glanceable if we use H3's. 
```suggestion
### Upgrading to patches 
We expect users to upgrade to patches as soon as they're available. When we refer to a "minor version" of dbt Core, such as v1.0 or v1.0.x, we are always referring to _the latest patch release of that version_. We highly encourage you to structure your development and production environments such that you can always install the latest patch.
```

> **Upgrading minor versions:** While we do not expect users to immediately upgrade to minor versions as soon as they're available, there will always be features and some fixes that are only available for users of the latest minor version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upgrading minor versions 
While we do not expect users to immediately upgrade to minor versions as soon as they're available, there will always be features and some fixes that are only available for users of the latest minor version.
```

Note that, for **adapter versions**, dbt-core and adapter plugins coordinate minor releases. Patch version numbers may differ, and will be released independently. As such, you may find you're using `dbt-core==1.0.1` with `dbt-snowflake==1.0.0` — that's ok! You should always install and use the latest available patch for all `dbt-*` software.

> **Trying prereleases:** All dbt Core versions are available as _prereleases_ before the final release. "Release candidates" are available for testing, in production-like environments, two weeks before the final release. For minor versions, we also aim to release one or more "betas," which include new features and invite community feedback, 4+ weeks before the final release. It is in your interest to help us test prereleases—we need your help!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Trying prereleases 
All dbt Core versions are available as _prereleases_ before the final release. "Release candidates" are available for testing, in production-like environments, two weeks before the final release. For minor versions, we also aim to release one or more "betas," which include new features and invite community feedback, 4+ weeks before the final release. It is in your interest to help us test prereleases—we need your help!
```

> **Trying prereleases:** All dbt Core versions are available as _prereleases_ before the final release. "Release candidates" are available for testing, in production-like environments, two weeks before the final release. For minor versions, we also aim to release one or more "betas," which include new features and invite community feedback, 4+ weeks before the final release. It is in your interest to help us test prereleases—we need your help!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Trying prereleases 
All dbt Core versions are available as _prereleases_ before the final release. "Release candidates" are available for testing, in production-like environments, two weeks before the final release. For minor versions, we also aim to release one or more "betas," which include new features and invite community feedback, 4+ weeks before the final release. It is in your interest to help us test prereleases—we need your help!
```

> ### Timeline + support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Timeline and support
```

> _Prior to v1.0_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Versioning prior to v1.0
```

- We are no longer releasing new patches for minor versions prior to v1.0
- As of June 30, 2022, dbt Cloud will remove support for dbt Core versions older than v1.0

> _Starting with v1.0_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Versioning starting with v1.0
```

> _Starting with v1.0_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Versioning starting with v1.0
```

> **Past versions:** Minor versions will be supported for one year (12 months) from the date of their initial release. _This is a definite commitment._ Ongoing support includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Past versions
Minor versions will be supported for one year (12 months) from the date of their initial release. _This is a definite commitment._ Ongoing support includes:
```

- **Ongoing patches:** We will continue to release new patch versions that include fixes. When a newer minor version is available, we will end Active Support; subsequent patches will be limited to critical fixes related to security and installation. After End of Support, no new patches will be released.
- **Availability in dbt Cloud:** While a minor version is officially supported, you can continue to use it in dbt Cloud. We will notify you as its End of Support is approaching. On the day it reaches End of Support, we will upgrade you to the subsequent minor version.

> **Future versions:** We aim to release a new minor "feature" every 3 months. _This is an indicative timeline ONLY._ For the latest information about upcoming releases, including their planned release dates and which features and fixes might be included in each, see [the GitHub milestones in the dbt-core repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/milestones).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Future versions

We aim to release a new minor "feature" every 3 months. _This is an indicative timeline ONLY._ For the latest information about upcoming releases, including their planned release dates and which features and fixes might be included in each, see [the GitHub milestones in the dbt-core repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/milestones).
```

---

> title: "Understanding dbt Core versions"

Author: Should this just be `Understanding dbt versions`, or `dbt Core versions`? I see it's the widest thing on the default sidebar

Reviewer: @jtcohen6 This is a great point. Maybe "About dbt Core versions?" I will be making those other titles more screen-reader friendly so this won't be the only longish one.
